WordPress is a free and open source content management system. It is based on php and MYsql and uses web server or internet hosting service for website publising.
It was realeased in 2003 may 27 matt mullenweg and mike little.
It works on web template system used for web plusing resuing the static elements and dynamicaaly elements can be changed.
As per now digital ocean on the best wordpress hosting sites.

Some uses of WordPress are:
Website management made easy
Extend your website
Unlimited pages on your website
Multilingual websites
Wordpress is an open source CMS
Easy changing of your domain or company name
Wordpress is SEO friendly
Can post updates, contents and offers easily.

Word Press plugin architecture allows users to extend the features and functionality of a website or blog.
 As of March 2017, WordPress has over 55,286 plugins available,
 each of which offers custom functions and features enabling users to tailor their sites to their specific needs. 
These customizations range from search engine optimization, to client portals used to display private information to logged in users, 
to content management systems, to content displaying features, such as the addition of widgets and navigation bars

Disadvantages of .org version - 

1. Disadvantages Modification requires knowledge of PHP   
Operations like removing a date field requires some understanding  of PHP language. 
It is the case for most of such modifications.

2.Graphics modification requires knowledge of CSS and HTML   
Although there are plenty templates available on the homepage, 
most  of them are very alike. To create a unique look, you need to know CSS  and HTML.

3.Plugins and efficiency   
To compete with Joomla! or Drupal, WordPress needs plenty of  plugins to be installed. 
Unfortunately these plugins influence the  script's efficiency and not in a good way. 
Another problem arises when  you need to choose a plugin for a specific functionality

VERSIONs
version 2003 0.7 version (intial phase)
version 2004 1.0 davis (first launch phase)
version 2017 4.9 tipton (currently used)